# Object Pickup Module
This module contains an implementation of a player that can pick up objects with their 'hand'. To get started, follow the steps below.
**Note**: This project has an implementation which uses a controller (PS4, Xbox, etc.), however, the code where input is detected can be modified to use a keyboard and mouse.
**Note to self**: in future versions, want the player to be able to throw the object either by pressing a key or by using the momentum generated by looking around with the right joystick.
1. Create a new 3D Unity project.
2. Set up the environment by creating a cube (the ground) with the scale x: 100, y: 1, and z: 100. Create another cube (the item you want to pick up) and place it on the ground.
3. Create a simple first person character controller which implements a player that can walk and look around. If you would like more information on this, Brackeys has a [tutorial](https://youtu.be/_QajrabyTJc?si=4V_A7LcB7TQrCyc4) on this on YouTube.
4. To set up a controller, watch Brackeys [tutorial](https://youtu.be/p-3S73MaDP8?si=KwQaIsNPROTOflCX) on controller input in Unity. For this module, you will need an action map named "Gameplay", and an action named "Pickup" bound to whichever key you prefer. I am using a PS4 controller and have bound it to L1. Make sure to click on "Save Asset" when done to save the actions and bindings.
5. Next, make an empty game object named "Hand" and make this the child of the player's camera. This will be the position where the item floats when you pick it up.
6. 